what is a minecraft seed as far as most
of us are concerned it's just a series
of characters or a series of numbers and
letters that somehow mean when you and
your friends both use the same one when
creating a brand new world
you both get the exact same world same
terrain trees caves ores foliage
everything and for years that's all I
thought of it as well it wasn't until
2016 rolled around that I realized that
minecraft seeds can be broken at all in
the old days I admired different world
seeds for their vibrant landscape
gorgeous terrain and immense cave
systems who doesn't remember the 404
challenge Gargamel or glacier from the
early minecraft beta days I mean I
actually used the glacier world seed on
one of my earliest minecraft servers a
server that predated me even making
Minecraft videos in the first place but
then in 2016 I became aware of a
Minecraft seed that is fundamentally
broken every single chunk or 16 by 16
block region within the game has a
number designated to it called a
structure chunk seed this chunk see
determines whether or not a cave ravine
or mineshaft will generate within that
chunk the broken minecraft seed that I
stumbled across in 2016 causes this
chunk seed to repeat along one cardinal
direction forever if a specific chunks
structure chunk seed allows for the
generation of a cave within that chunk
then that cave and its shape will repeat
for every chunk forever but what if I
told you that there is a new type of
broken minecraft seed that was recently
discovered okay maybe not recently
because I'm slow to make this video but
I knew from the moment I saw it that I
wanted to learn everything about it so
let's check out the new most broken
minecraft seed there is
to celebrate the upcoming release of
minecraft Dungeons whirlwind effects is
hosting a giveaway to win a copy of
minecraft dungeons and one of their
element keyboards to go along with it
which have advanced lighting ambience
and integrations that allow their
keyboard to react to any game check out
the link in the description down below
in order to join their giveaway
what makes this broken minecraft seed
the most broken of them all well for
that we need to take a look at what
precisely this minecraft seed breaks in
that it doesn't break the same way that
the seed that I just spoke of before
does on the surface things look largely
very normal there are biomes rivers
terrain trees trees what you're seeing
this right
the trees are repeating diagonally not
only that but everything on the surface
that isn't the very shape of the terrain
itself is repeating trees water lakes
lava lakes icebergs the sand clay and
gravel patterns within certain bodies of
water and even the patterns of mob
spawning what is going on here well for
that we need to dive sort of deep into
Minecraft code I'm going to try and
explain this as simply as I can as I
explained in this video from two and a
half years ago when minecraft generates
a world it starts with the very shape of
the world itself generated as one giant
stone noisemap and then any air block
under 64 blocks generates as water after
that grass shows up then the structured
chunk seed equation occurs which
populates the world with caves mineshaft
stronghold and ravines this equation is
the one that was broken with the
original broken minecraft seed where the
random number generated by next long
gets returned as zero every single time
which caused the chunk seed along one
cardinal direction to repeat forever
after this first chunk seed is
calculated a second chunk seed is
actually calculated which I'm going to
call for the remainder of this video the
population chunk seed this one cannot be
broken in the same manner as before you
cannot force the random number generated
by long a or long B within the
population chunk seed to return 0f
but why well this part of the population
chunk seeds equation forces the returned
result to be an odd number which 0 is
not but you're watching this video so
clearly there is a way to break it in
order to break the population chunk seed
equation we need to force B to equal a
or B to equal negative a let me explain
why that breaks this equation excluding
the main world seed this is the equation
we're dealing with position X is the
x-coordinate of any given chunk within
the world and position Z is the Z
coordinate of any given chunk those are
fixed values based on the location of
that chunk so if we can force B and a to
be equals
watch what happens to the equation let's
pretend that both a and B are equal to
69 nice let's also assume we're testing
the chunk at position 1 negative 1 which
means X position 1 and Z position
negative 1 well 1 times 69 is 69 and
negative 1 times 69 is negative 60 9 add
them together and you get 0 if the x
position is 2 in the Z position is
negative 2 same thing two times 69 is
negative 2 times 69 is negative one
hundred and thirty-eight add them
together
0 if a and B are opposites instead of
the x and z position being opposites
this same thing occurs but where both x
and z are positive numbers this time 1
times 69 is 69 and 1 times negative 69
is- 69 add them together you get 0
represent it visually instead of every
individual chunks population seed being
a seemingly random number we get this
where they repeat diagonally instead so
what exactly does the population chunk
cede govern with in Minecraft what
generates from this number well as
you've seen already trees water and lava
lakes icebergs
lake bed patterns mob spawning mushrooms
within the nether those little end
islands and/or spawning yeah I was
saving the best for last with this video
with this broken minecraft seed if you
find diamonds underground and you just
keep digging diagonally you'll find more
and more with every single chunk and
every single chunk after that forever
the diamonds just keep on going and
going and going after finding out about
all of this I immediately had a question
what else if anything can be broken in
this manner well let's check that out
my first thought was to ask the question
if the population chunk seed can be
broken along the game's diagonals can
the structured chunk seed be broken the
same way again that governs mine shafts
caves strongholds and ravines can we
cause those to repeat diagonally as well
well unfortunately no the population
chunk seed adds its two results together
while the structure chunk seed raises
the two values to each other that's why
the structure chunk seed can only be
broken by causing one of those two
numbers to equal 0 any number raised to
0 returns 1 and 0 raised to any number
returns 0 in repetition so know the
structure chunk seed cannot be broken in
this man
if what I've explained has piqued your
interest go subscribe to Matthew Boland
right now there's a link in the
description down below he's the
mastermind behind this broken minecraft
seed many other broken Minecraft seeds
and he's also one of the guys leading
the charge in finding the PAC dot PNG
minecraft seed he's also created a bunch
of really in-depth videos for how most
of this works and how he discovered all
of this on my youtube channel I try to
simplify these explanations as best as I
can more for my own understanding than
anything else but if you want to see how
Matt actually figured all of this out in
the first place seriously go subscribe
to him right now
a link will be in the description down
below if you want to try this broken
minecraft seed for yourself or more
precisely one of the 64 broken 48-bit
seeds or even more precisely one of the
four million 194 thousand three hundred
and four broken 64-bit seeds that break
the population chunk seed I explain what
I mean in this video if you're
interested go and check out the seeds
which will be in the description of
Matthew Bolin's video on the matter oh
that's good to break Minecraft again
even if none of the discovery is my
responsibility in this case but it's
still fun nonetheless and if you guys
enjoyed this video
please consider leaving a like on it
because it would really help out myself
the channel and the video quite a lot so
I hope you all enjoyed my name is
antvenom and i bid you all farewell
thanks so much for watching
[Music]